+++
title = "Bray, Theodor Charles"
date = "2020-09-01T12:15:02-00:00"
categories = ["persons"]
tags = [""]
layout = "html"
+++


Born 1905

## Summary
Papers 1940-1944, tape recorded interview 1971. 

## Description 

T.C. Bray was involved with Australian Newspapers from 1920 to 1970 and from 1936 onwards had been on the staff of the Brisbane Courier-Mail, of which he became Editor in Chief in 1953. During World War II and immediately after, he was occasionally employed by the government on special tasks. A collection of his papers relating to press censorship during the war has been deposited in the National Library.

A. Current censorship instructions for the years 1940-1944.

B. Department of Information secret background circulars from June 1941 to December 1943.

C. Three typescript articles and four pamphlets on censorship issued by the military authorities. A.N.L. MS. 2519

The Library holds a tape recording of an interview with T.C. Bray in 1971 which includes a discussion of the situation in Brisbane, which was General Macarthur's headquarters during the war. National Library of Australia TRC 121/9.









	
		  





        			
		</aside>
		

<div class="container-dark row">
	<footer class="content content-light row" role="contentinfo">
		<h3 class="visuallyhidden">
			Footer information
		</h3>
		<div class="col3 ptb font14">
			Cite this: http://www.????????/biogs/E000013b.htm<br>
			Copyright: &copy; <em>The Dalton Guide to Sources for North Queensland History</em>, 2020<br>
			Except where otherwise noted, content on this site is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-No Derivative Works 3.0 Australia License
		
	</footer>

</body>
</html>
